README.md, before:

# SYNOPSIS

hexlog *in|out|inout|none* *cmd* *...*

# DESCRIPTION

hexlog: hexdump stdin and/or stdout to stderr

hexlog streams a hexdump of the standard I/O of a subprocess to standard
error. Hexdumps can be enabled or disabled by sending a signal (see
_SIGNALS_).

The hexdump code originates from:

https://gist.github.com/ccbrown/9722406

# EXAMPLES

```
$ echo abc | hexlog inout cat -n
     1  abc
61 62 63 0A                                       |abc.| (0)
20 20 20 20 20 31 09 61  62 63 0A                 |     1.abc.| (1)

$ (echo test | HEXLOG_FD_STDIN=4 HEXLOG_FD_STDOUT=5 hexlog inout cat) 4>stdin 5>stdout
```

# Build

    make

    # selecting process restrictions
    RESTRICT_PROCESS=seccomp make

    #### using musl
    RESTRICT_PROCESS=rlimit ./musl-make

    ## linux seccomp sandbox: requires kernel headers

    # clone the kernel headers somewhere
    cd /path/to/dir
    git clone https://github.com/sabotage-linux/kernel-headers.git

    # then compile
    MUSL_INCLUDE=/path/to/dir ./musl-make clean all

# OPTIONS

None.

# ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES

HEXLOG_LABEL_STDIN=" (0)"
: Label attached to hexdump of the stdin stream.

HEXLOG_LABEL_STDOUT=" (1)"
: Label attached to hexdump of the stdout stream.

HEXLOG_FD_STDIN="2"
: File descriptor to write hexdump.

HEXLOG_FD_STDOUT="2"
: File descriptor to write hexdump.

# SIGNALS

SIGUSR1
: enable/disable hexdump of stdin

SIGUSR2
: enable/disable hexdump of stdout

SIGHUP
: reset hexdump stdio to initial value

# ALTERNATIVES

## bash

The general problem is duplicating stdout to stderr which can be handled
using `tee(1)` and bash's process substitution:

    tee >(cat 1>&2) | command | tee >(cat 1>&2)

This pipeline forks 6 processes including bash. To hexdump:

    tee >(stdbuf -oL hexdump -C 1>&2) | command | tee >(stdbuf -oL hexdump -C 1>&2)

A real version would use a format string and include the direction
(stdin vs stdout).

And to wrap it in a script:

~~~
#!/bin/bash

set -o errexit
set -o nounset
set -o pipefail

tee >(stdbuf -oL hexdump -C 1>&2) | $@ | tee >(stdbuf -oL hexdump -C 1>&2)
~~~

For example:

~~~
./hexlog nc -l -k 9090
~~~

Note: hexdump doesn't exit and flush the buffer when stdin is closed. It
will wait for the next full write.

## socat

    socat -xv - EXEC:"command arg1",pty

## awk

Commit message:

r(in|out|inout|none): dump the raw bytes
Add support for dumping the raw bytes: useful for "snooping" program
output.

README.md, after:

# SYNOPSIS

hexlog *[r](in|out|inout|none)* *cmd* *...*

# DESCRIPTION

hexlog: hexdump stdin and/or stdout to stderr

hexlog streams a hexdump (or optionally the raw bytes) of the standard
I/O of a subprocess to standard error. Hexdumps can be enabled or disabled
by sending a signal (see _SIGNALS_).

The hexdump code originates from:

https://gist.github.com/ccbrown/9722406

# EXAMPLES

```
$ echo abc | hexlog inout cat -n
     1  abc
61 62 63 0A                                       |abc.| (0)
20 20 20 20 20 31 09 61  62 63 0A                 |     1.abc.| (1)

$ (echo test | HEXLOG_FD_STDIN=4 HEXLOG_FD_STDOUT=5 hexlog inout cat) 4>stdin 5>stdout

$ echo abc | hexlog rinout cat -n
     1  abc
abc
     1  abc

```

# Build

    make

    # selecting process restrictions
    RESTRICT_PROCESS=seccomp make

    #### using musl
    RESTRICT_PROCESS=rlimit ./musl-make

    ## linux seccomp sandbox: requires kernel headers

    # clone the kernel headers somewhere
    cd /path/to/dir
    git clone https://github.com/sabotage-linux/kernel-headers.git

    # then compile
    MUSL_INCLUDE=/path/to/dir ./musl-make clean all

# OPTIONS

None.

# ARGUMENTS

none:
: do not dump stdio

in
: dump stdin

out
: dump stdout

inout
: dump stdin/stdout

Prefacing a stream with 'r' will dump the raw bytes: rnone, rin,
rout, rinout.

# ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES

HEXLOG_LABEL_STDIN=" (0)"
: Label attached to hexdump of the stdin stream.

HEXLOG_LABEL_STDOUT=" (1)"
: Label attached to hexdump of the stdout stream.

HEXLOG_FD_STDIN="2"
: File descriptor to write dump of the stdin stream.

HEXLOG_FD_STDOUT="2"
: File descriptor to write dump of the stdout stream.

# SIGNALS

SIGUSR1
: enable/disable hexdump of stdin

SIGUSR2
: enable/disable hexdump of stdout

SIGHUP
: reset hexdump stdio to initial value

# ALTERNATIVES

## bash

The general problem is duplicating stdout to stderr which can be handled
using `tee(1)` and bash's process substitution:

    tee >(cat 1>&2) | command | tee >(cat 1>&2)

This pipeline forks 6 processes including bash. To hexdump:

    tee >(stdbuf -oL hexdump -C 1>&2) | command | tee >(stdbuf -oL hexdump -C 1>&2)

A real version would use a format string and include the direction
(stdin vs stdout).

And to wrap it in a script:

~~~
#!/bin/bash

set -o errexit
set -o nounset
set -o pipefail

tee >(stdbuf -oL hexdump -C 1>&2) | $@ | tee >(stdbuf -oL hexdump -C 1>&2)
~~~

For example:

~~~
./hexlog nc -l -k 9090
~~~

Note: hexdump doesn't exit and flush the buffer when stdin is closed. It
will wait for the next full write.

## socat

    socat -xv - EXEC:"command arg1",pty

## awk
